# Post-Office-simulation
A Post Office is simulated by using multiple threads and semaphores to model 50 customers and 3 employees using Java

The aim of the project is to implement a post office scenario using threads and semaphores. The main objective of the project is to learn the coordination of multiple threads using semaphores.
I started the project by thoroughly learning about multithreading and how semaphores can be utilized to control their flow. The barber shop example was the reference I used. First I started by implementing multithreads and later worked on semaphores.
The scenario which I had to recreate was a Post Office, where there will be only three postal workers. 50 customers will be coming to the post office but only 10 are allowed to enter the office at a time. Since there are only three postal workers, there are three counters. Each customer will approach the postal worker and will order a service. The services provided are “to buy stamp”, “to mail a letter” and “to mail a package”. The customers will be ordering services in a random order. If a customer orders to mail a package, then the postal worker will have to use a scale to weigh the package. If a postal worker starts serving a customer, he won’t be able to proceed to next customer until he is done with the current one. Similarly the scale while mailing a package can be used by only one postal worker at a time. At the time when one postal worker is using the scale, if another postal worker also desires to do so, then he will have to wait till the first postal worker is done using it.
In this scenario, the three postal workers and 50 customers are created as separate threads and the mutual exclusion desired in each activity is achieved by using special semaphores called mutexes. The coordination of the thread is implemented using semaphores.
I had difficulty in managing the flow of different threads and mainly in associating the same customer and postal worker pair throughout the process.
It helped me learn the way multiple thread works simultaneously and how they can be controlled. The main challenge was the difference in the output each time the program was executed as different threads completes in different time. Overall it was a very interesting and challenging experience as it enabled to practice my technical concepts and be thorough with it.
